[MUSIC]
In all of our modelling
throughout the last few lessons,
we have assumed that all
the observations were independent.
Sometimes, that's obviously
not true about our data.
There is often a natural grouping to our
data points which leads us to believe that
some observation pairs should be more
similar to each other than to others.
Let's look at an example.
In the previous course,
we talked about using a Poisson model for
counting chocolate chips in cookies.
Let's suppose that you own a company
that produces chocolate chip cookies.
In an experiment,
you're going to produce 150 test cookies.
Let's say you'll do 30
from your location and
then 30 from four other factory locations.
So let's write this as 30
from each of 5 locations.
We're going to assume that all the
locations use the same recipe when they
make their chocolate chip cookies.
So now, would you expect
a cookie from your location,
location one, to be more similar
to another cookie from your batch
than to a cookie from another
locations' batch, I'd say probably.
There's a natural grouping to the cookies.
We can account for the likely differences
between cookies in your Poisson model
by making it a hierarchical model.
The original fully independent mode for
model for
Poisson, the number of chips in
the cookies would have looked like this.
Let's call this the fully
independent model.
For cookie i the number of chips,
given lambda,
the mean would be iid from a Poisson
distribution with mean lambda.
For i = 1 up to n which
in our case is a 150.
One way we can acknowledge the grouping
in the counts is to assign
a different lambda parameter for
each location.
So, we're going to do
a location dependent model.
We'll say that the ith cookie which
happens to be in the lth location
follows a Poisson with a mean lambda that
depends on the location of cookie i.
So that is, yi given the location
of where cookie i was made.
And lambda li will come independently
from a Poisson lambda li,
where li can take on values between 1 and
5 because there are five locations,
and i = 1 up to 150.
That is,
if cookie i comes from location two,
for example then li will be 2.
And so the expected number of chips
in cookie i will be lambda 2.
So far,
this looks like a one way ANOVA model.
What make this a hierarchical model
is that instead of placing
an independent prior for
each of the lambda parameters, we're going
to assume that they come from a common
distribution with hyper parameters
that we're going to estimate as well.
That is, we're going to say that lambda l,
given our hyper parameters,
alpha and beta, will be iid from a gamma
distribution with shape alpha and
rate beta.
This is for location 1 up to location 5.
We'll complete this model with priors for
alpha and beta.
So we'll say,
alpha comes from the prior for alpha.
Beta comes from the prior distribution for
beta.
It's also useful to see the graphical
representation of this model.
We're going to start at the top of
the hierarchy with the parameters
that are independent.
So we have a note for
alpha and a note for beta.
And depended on these two parameters,
we have all of the lambdas.
So, lambda 1, lambda 2, up to lambda 5.
And of course the distribution for
each of these lambdas depends
on both alpha and beta.
In the next level down,
we have all of the cookies
that are from location 1.
So I'm going to say, yi for
i such that location of i is equal to 1.
So these are all the cookies
from location 1.
We can do the same thing for
all of the other batches,
i such that the location
that i is equal to 2 and
a plate for this group over here,
Such that location i = 5.
The lowest level here represents
each individual cookie.
And cookies are grouped by location, which
is represented here at the second level.
For each location, we have a parameter for
the mean number of chocolate chips.
These five means come from a common
distribution, who's parameters we can
also estimate, because the five lambdas
can be thought of as data at this level.
If we hadn't used the hierarchical model
for the cookie example here, two obvious
modeling choices would have been to first,
fit a single model to all of the data,
treating all 150 cookies as though they're
independent like we did here in number 1.
Or second, fit five separate Poisson
models, one for each location.
The book Bayesian Data Analysis
by Galman and co-authors,
which is listed as one of your
references for further reading,
describes the trade offs,
between these types of options, and
how hierarchical models
provide a good compromise.
For example, if we had fit the original
model with 150 independent cookies,
we would be ignoring potential differences
between locations and the fact
that cookies from the same location are
likely to be more similar to each other.
On the other hand, if we had fit five
separate Poisson models, one for
each batch of cookies, we would
potentially be ignoring information that
could help us estimate the lambda
parameter for your location.
Because separate models would
ignore data from other locations.
Since all locations use the same recipe,
it seems reasonable that information
about another location's cookies
might provide information about
your cookies, at least indirectly.
In this sense,
hierarchical models share information,
or borrow strength, from all the data.
That is, your lambda is not only estimated
directly from your 30 cookies, but
also indirectly from the other 120 cookies
leveraging this hierarchical structure.
Being able to account for relationships
in the data while estimating everything
with the single model is a primary
advantage of using hierarchical models.
[MUSIC]